for
microscope
iron
oh it's trash night don't let me
forget I think it it's weird
ofid
I got it I got
it
webcam ironing
board
keep ironing board away from
acetone if only I had some cigarettes am
I
right
okay I've upgraded my mask as well I'm
now using a respirator because I was
smelling acetone and it kind of gave me
a headache I don't know if that was
Placebo or what but I'm
upgrading so
mask wood block and
sandpaper
roll
alcohol and now that we have the
respirator I don't
[Music]
need I don't need the
fan so we'll clear up some much needed
desk space so my computer can be all the
way back
here this like
this this okay I got to get some
stuff
nit TR gloves double-sided copper
boards
e
for
Dremel
tool
goggles bag of etching
[__] which should be handled with
caution
clamp ah I love
clamp
okay so now what I think is going to
happen
is I think I'm ditching yesterday's
boards I think that was a total waste
because I don't know how it works so
debugging it will be a pain in the ass
but I've debugged the original circuit
so much that it makes sense to iterate
on it so what I'm going to do
is I'm going to do two versions I'm
going to do one with magazine paper and
I'm going to do one with thermal paper
cuz I'm running out of thermal paper so
I'm going to
go I'm just going to load the rest of
the thermal paper
into the printer I'm going to put some
magazine paper into this
printer we're going to print them I'm
going to go get them that's
it
for
it's time to
bring it's time to
BR clamp we don't need the clamp for a
while okay gloves we'll need all
right all right so this is the
board should
I should I make some final
tweaks here's what I'm
thinking
so
then I just have some
room that's cutting it a little close
with that
thing but it's not
really can we look at
it
I'm confident okay
so okay I'm going to print that I'm
going to get the ruler and I'm going to
measure
that
just make sure it's
[Music]
right
70 maybe just like
69.5 and like
9.5 it's like really close so that's
good enough for me so let's print the
back
not
mirrored okay then we're going to
do F mired
print and then we're going to
do print and I'm glad I don't print the
drawing sheet I don't like the drawing
sheet on
there
time to get my
prints and then we have our boards we
have our paper towels and alcohol so we
can wash them clean them and we can iron
them right behind
me sounds
good
e
I just realized the one thing that I did
forget is mounting
holes okay so as they are there
we just need to make sure that we don't
[__] it
up
m
I might have not have the right screws
but we're not going to get even into
that okay so step
one
um
all right so we're going to
take oh one thing we are missing is
overhead
camera
okay so we're going to take
our fresh copper
board
honestly I kind of want to try it
without scrub scrubbing
it or let me
well I just don't like how it looks when
it's
scrubbed all right you know what we're
going to [__] it and we're going to
we're going to try the magazine
one without scrubbing it we are going to
do alcohol on
it
so no sander because I don't like the
Sandpaper part I think
it's
messy your
iyl I'm just going to coat the
surface
okay okay now that it's coated we can
cap this
off then we're going to cut
out the magazine one we're going to do
the shitty one first
because
side one
for
side
two I need a waist bin I'm going to go
try to find a
wasteband hey Mom you have a good waist
bin
acquired trash
okay so
now we are going to iron
on the
first can you see the ironing
board
okay so we're going to iron on the first
side going to leave the second side
done
okay the iron is
on getting hot hot
hot
getting hot hot hot
all right let's see how hot it
is it's getting
there let me get some
water
e
okay water has been completed yo what's
up bro I'm making um he wait let me grab
it for
you all right if you're still here so
I'm
making a digital or not a digital I'm
making an analog modular
synthesizer uh so but I've been doing a
side quest of making printed circuit
boards and so right now I'm attempting
my first two layer printed circuit board
so we're going to see how that goes so
I've got my iron
here and I've got
a piece
of a piece of magazine paper and I've
printed my circuit board using a laser
printer which is basically just the
toner the ink is just plastic I guess
some sort of thermoplastic so if I get
it hot then it'll melt again and it'll
adhere to the metal and then that metal
will be masked for any etching so if I
try to get rid of the metal anything
that's ined will will not get
removed okay so we'll check that the uh
that it's
hot it is very hot so now I can go
ahead and drop the iron
down I wish you had a big screen for
chat uh lots of people do it it's pretty
common
let's see maybe I can open up Twitch
chat wait actually isn't there like a
isn't there like a Creator
dashboard and maybe I can just open up
chat stream manager that's what I was
thinking
of and
then pop out
chat then I could probably zoom in on
this okay now I can see your chat
bro okay so we're going to apply some
pressure okay it does seem like it maybe
started to burn a little bit but it's
not that complicated I I'll explain it
I'm just kind of rushing so I'm not able
to explain it as
well so what about you what do you make
bro what do you
make about you though what do you do
okay so
um all right so we can let that one
cool the other
one
um the other
one I'm going to lightly oh look at that
one that one's completely [__]
destroyed I hope they're not all all
like
that okay I think that's the only one I
want to see if I sand that does that get
better it does seem to get a little
better if I sand it
down
okay I don't want to risk it on this
board though I want a good
one okay this one looks very
good make trading Bots that's
sick you make any
money
oh
nice that one time I really wanted to do
a like high frequency sports betting but
uh no more now I want to make
things I still think high frequency
sports betting could be really
cool
yeah I honestly don't give a [__] about
sports but uh some of my friends did
okay so now I'm going to sand this
lightly well I guess I'm going to dry it
and sand
it
I guess I can turn this
off okay this one is cool relatively
cool now so you I can show you what it's
like to
peel oh this this transfer was
horrible this transfer is completely
unusable we're going to have to scratch
this off
I wonder what I
did horrible transfers one of my worst
yet I don't know you probably can't tell
but tons of traces are broken it's
totally
unusable so that's an
L all right so now I want to
do the same thing so we'll have to get
acetone and a
toothbrush
yeah yeah yeah and so this covers up so
then you put this chemical on top of
this and anything that doesn't have the
ink gets gets washed away um all right
whatever so I'm going to try it with a
good
paper so we're going to just lightly
sand it I wish I had
even
okay so now we're going to do another
rinse get all the copper off it all the
extra copper off of
it
okay see yeah can you actually see this
on the
cam I don't have the best light I have
yellow light not white light so it's
going to be hard so I'll show you so now
I've sanded this down a little bit we'll
try to dry
it okay then what I'm going to do is do
the same process that I just did with
this special kind of paper that's
slightly glossy you can probably see
that and it's not not glossy on the
other side so this
has transfer and it's supposed to be
special type of
paper okay almost
ready
okay so now we have this we have our s
sanded down board it's been polished a
little
bit okay now we're going to I'm actually
going to try to do this a little bit
better
how long have you been doing sports
betting are you still here how long you
been doing trading I
mean okay so that's probably good
enough okay now we can switch to
webcam
oh sick how old are
you okay so now we can turn this back
on is it
on and I can switch to my chat
window getting good at
this oh nice I'm
okay let's see is it
hot it's pretty
hot let me start a stopwatch so that I
can
see
so I've been doing about 15 seconds
already
probably I saw some people say 10 to 15
minutes I think that's way too
much yeah no I am trying to make music
with it
yeah um so actually later I can show you
it
working uh basically I just plug that
box that I had that wooden box into the
wall and then I plug a speaker into one
of the outputs and you can hear a sign
not a sine wave but a Sawtooth wave and
you can change the pitch of that
Sawtooth wave with another
voltage uh but it's a far cry from RE
from what people would consider real
music my mom thinks it sounds like trash
but uh I think it's
cool
H okay so that's been about a minute
I'll hold it here for maybe 10 more
seconds get some pressure on
it you really just want to make sure
that all of the ink is transferred and I
think that's the problem with the
magazine paper but I I'm going to do an
experiment I'm going to get some acetone
and a
toothbrush and I got to get it get
something from the shed a container to
hold actually I think I have a container
and then I'll show you washer how to
wash off the
acetone actually you know I don't need
to get the toothbrush right so we're
going to let that cool down and we're
going to do an experiment
um
okay uh it's
fine okay so we're going to do an
experiment
um for acetone I like to
have Nitro TR
gloves and a
respirator wait hold
on I mean
acetone isn't that bad but I don't you
know
yeah okay so
uh
okay
h
for uh too
much
okay
for
okay so now I'm going to do a little
experiment and I'm going to see if
sanding it
down actually helped so I have another
magazine which is supposed to be the
other side of it and I'm going to see
if sanding it really does something so
this is the same side and we're just
going to see if we can get a better
transfer going do this
carefully
okay
all right that's a pretty good sanding
so now we're going to since there should
be particulate on
there more
alcohol get it all over
there
yeah I don't know if you heard me yet
just curiosity just wanting to do it
seeing people on YouTube seeing people
on YouTube manufacture semiconductors
and being like I don't even know how to
make a
PCB okay so now what we're going to do
is we're going to try a second attempt
this time basically we're going to test
the hypothesis that you really do need
to buff the board all right so we're
going to switch
over to webcam
turn this
on while we wait for that to heat up I
can show what it looks like when you
peel off
transfer an ebook reader that's
cool
wow you can totally tell that transfer
worked um amazing this paper does
such such an amazing
job I
know I know it looks so
cool okay so we're going to in order to
pre preserve it cuz we're going to so
the next step are basically we're going
to drill some holes in it we're going to
put components through it then we're
going to take the other side the other
paper we have poke holes in that so it's
lined up and then once it's lined up
we'll be able to iron the second side
and make sure that there's
no cuz the back side and the front side
need to be aligned and this is the part
that I've been really struggling
with
um okay so it's probably warm enough
link the eBook reader thing I want to
see the ebook
thing okay wait let's do our test wipe
the board
that's
hot oh I can I get chat on my
phone
cool
[Music]
h
oh strange Parts dude I didn't know he
coded that's crazy strange parts does a
ton of electronic stuff he has these
great tours where he goes around any
tours like PCB manufacturers dude
strange Parts is
sick I didn't know he coded bro that's
crazy I didn't he live
streamed that's
sick yeah no he's like super big like
look up strange Parts on
YouTube
I should be timing all of this so the
procedure is really unlock
but it should be adhering to the board
more than it
is what I think I might do since I feel
like there's
some like the part that
makes the page stick to the Copper board
is the ink itself I think so if
I if I put a big thick rectangle around
the edges maybe the the corners won't
come off as
much okay so we're going to let that
cool and then in the
meanwhile we can just chill for a second
because
I need
to figure out what is going
on so we need to I guess plug in the
Dremel tool cuz that's the next thing
that we need and I'm actually going
to
I'm going to set up this table cuz I
don't
like cuz I don't like
um the Dremel
tool in my
workspace
I think I'm back okay so now I just
need um I need a surge
strip I
think
um but we can do that in a
second
okay
respirator
okay so let me just show you this is
cooled down a good
amount I remember the
uh the last time I did this I think I
got a good transfer but I needed to put
it in water to to peel it
off
no no it's not good
enough and I'll show you why it's not
good enough um I got to get a surge
strip or no I can just use this
extension
cord cuz we're done with the no we're
not done with the iron okay hold on I'll
be back in a sec cuz I need to get some
stuff
okay I'm
back with a
second
um this here fine
okay second power
cord and one of these
dongles and I have something pretty
cool that I think will be
interesting
and I can make a new thing called
scope add
it little USB
uh I need a longer USB I need everything
to be Wireless
actually okay so here we
go [__] Christ cables cables cables
ban of my resistance is
cables it makes it so hard to move my
setup around okay so we get a new video
capture device I think and this is going
to
be wait no maybe it's not video capture
let's see oh wait I have to turn it
on
uh
boom
all
right check it out okay now we want to
do
transform oh and I actually want to add
let's
see this is me copy paste okay so now
I'm
here and I'm on top and then this guy we
want to do
transform fit to screen contrl F Okay
cool so what we have here is a
microscope and so you can see here
like that Trace totally broken all of
these traces totally broken you can see
here the the the pad's just not there
like this is not going to
work we don't have
continuity so anyways that's um
unfortunate but now let's compare with
our good
one I mean look at that look at that
like maybe a little bad but other than a
few things like we clearly are going to
make electrical contact with all that
copper so I'm very pleased about that I
will say though I don't want to fully
attribute I mean obviously the paper is
better like that's already one thing but
I and I do think that
the I do think that buffing it with the
the what's it called the Sandpaper
helped a little possibly but I'm not
sure the magazine paper was working for
me when I had really thick traces I
don't know what I need to do better to
make mag because the thing is magazine
paper is common and so it's always nice
to use cheap
materials um but okay so now we have at
least one board and we're going to we've
so we've already failed on one count but
now what we're going to do is we're
going to take this board and we're going
to drill some holes into it and
then um so I need to get the drill bits
hold on I'll be back in a
sec
okay and one of the things that I
learned from last time one of the things
that I learned so I brought a bag a bag
of goodies random wires because what I
learned is that my holes on my former
pcbs are too
big so we can still use that old board
um see can you see that so the problem
is these these traces before I did the
um they weren't great wait actually let
me find the right
example well I got everyone except the
one that was good actually no you know
what I think that might have been the
good
one no no this is the thermal paper this
is the so this is the one that uses the
thermal paper and so you can see here
when I drill the hole I'm actually
taking
out this
corner and so it's not like the worst
thing in the world because it's there's
still electrical contact but the problem
is soldering to it is way more difficult
so what I'm going to try to do is drill
with these drill bits they're carbide
drill bits and I'm going to try to um
find the smallest size that will fit
some of my
components
um so let's just get to it because we
only have one board anyways
so
um okay so I want to do normal
no no no I want to do
webcam actually hold on I'll do webcam
and then I'll point
it and you should be able to see
me
um so we got the drill bits the goggles
in the
respirator okay I need the uh cable
where did I throw that [__] cable
okay give me a second while I set up
here
[Music]
new
okay
[__] this thing is
not there we go
okay all right we have
power
here um we'll take this
chair here
now what I need is my clamp and this
wood thing actually W I have a thicker
piece of wood that I
use so now what I'm going to do is I'm
going to take this clamp a piece of wood
so that I can hold the board in
place
uh I want two papers on top of each
other making contact yeah so like
there's wires on one side and then
there's wires on the other side they're
electrically isolated but the holes will
connect them if if I want them to and so
I want the holes to be small uh so that
I
don't
um so that I'm basically I want to
prevent it from being hard to solder to
if there's copper all around the hole
then it's really easy for the co the
solder to get sucked into a little cone
that holds the wire really in
place
um okay
so uh let's do
it piece of
wood now I need my
board and so what I think I'm going to
do
is
I'm going
to
okay uh let's do this all right so I've
decided what parts I'm going to drill my
initial holes into I'm going to drill my
holes into this bottom
one this top
one and this one three coordinates
should give me enough for it to be
locked in place
um oh I cut my gloves I need new
gloves good thing I bought 150
gloves I don't like any of this nasty
chemical stuff like I I really don't
like the fiberglass I think it gets
everywhere so I like to do it
elsewhere I mean I wish I had a milling
machine the CNC mill that would just do
it for
me but
alas no such
thing like these gloves are impossible
to get
on this is the hand where I need it to
be on really well no actually that's not
true
okay so ready for
drilling dude where are you based out of
by the way I'm curious where you're
at I would guess New York if you're
doing trading but you know could be
anywhere
the Big
Apple okay last time before
I oh oh you're in Europe cool glad that
Europe has people working on their
financial markets cuz all the cool [__]
happens in America
cuz we don't have [__] regulation all
right um so I need to switch over
to
webcam all right and then I just need to
get set up with my
board oh and the last thing is I want
these this bag of
components
for
[Music]
we
oh
wait
for
so the first thing is I'm I'm coming to
the conclusion that you really need a
drill bit or a drill press to do this
because getting it it accurate is just
basically
impossible and the other thing
is I need
light okay that should give me some more
light maybe too much light I don't
know
[__]
it's as far down as it
goes all right
whatever
okay I think I used it
slightly to
uh a drill B that's slightly too small
so I'm going to do one more
thing
for
okay so now I'm going to
get like a
needle I really [__] up on these
holes the first one is good th this hole
is not that good because it's going to
be kind of annoying to solder to but
with just a ton of solder it'll be okay
this
one clearly is kind of [__] up but I
think I can make it
work um because the thing is that pad
this this pad happens to not be used
basically at all so I'm kind of getting
lucky what I what I I should have done I
just do this what I should have done is
added mounting holes which you can do
which I just forgot to do to the
schematic and those mounting holes I
could make small enough that I could use
them as my guides but it's okay it's not
the end of the world uh I just need to
go get a needle so I'll be
back Mom do you have a
need
for
thanks
okay all right so now I have one of
these pin
cushions I overhead okay now I'm going
to cut this out of
here with my invisible
scissors
and you know what's so funny is that you
can literally get your board made online
for like
$5 and you get you get like 10 of them
$5 but you know what I can't wait for 20
days to get my board because it comes
from
China and the Shi shipping times just
take
forever yeah man it so
is I do want to eventually order from
them once I'm good enough at making the
thing is I feel like my designs aren't
professional enough to be sent out yet
cuz I don't want to wait I don't want to
wait 20 days to find out that my board
is wrong you know what I mean like I
want
to test it here and not have to
wait okay so we cut it out throw this
away okay
now what we want to do is we want to
take this very thin pen we can get rid
of the microscope for now we don't
really need
it yeah I do it for fun but I mean I
also want to finish the project so it's
kind of okay so now we have to do some
reasoning here
because this is going to
go on
so this is like
this wa so how is this supposed to be on
here oh I guess it's no I guess it's
right this is supposed to be on here
like that
so poke a
hole here oh that worked really well I
like how that worked so so
well
o it did make a okay I can easily
scratch off the ink though so I have to
be
careful
okay second hemade I actually should
just
[Music]
use
I've got two tickets to iron maen
baby oh
[__] I'm peeling off the
rain okay so what I want to do is I want
to flip this
over I going to put this in the
hole put this in the
hole is that even lined
up no way that's lined
up
wait I think I [__] this up I might
have to print again all right I have to
slow down I'm going get my chair we got
to think about
this how am I going to power it
up uh I'll show
you
oh wait not that
okay so so what you get from the wall
you're in Europe so you get 240 volts
but here in the US we get
about
120 okay
so
um okay so
basically I take hold on I got to get
something
okay so I
take this which is called a wall wart
and what it does is it takes the wall
voltage of 115 120 volts ac and it
converts it to 15 volts
ac
then I designed a power supply and that
plugs in something like this okay so
then on the back of this I have a wire
coming
out and those
wires go to this
thing and then this thing basically
converts the plus the the 15 volt AC to
+ 12 V DC andus 12 Vol DC so I have and
it also gives me a ground a common
ground that goes to the wall so it gives
me three things ground plus 12 Vols and
minus 12 volts and those will go to the
synthesizer and be used for power so
that's how the power
works okay so let's go back to the
overhead
cam okay okay so we need to figure
out if I just made the wrong
holes oh I totally did hold on wait
there's no way this works
because this need needs to go
like that it needs to go like
that
okay okay there we
go so I think I did make the right
holes I've got two tickets to uh
[Music]
I don't know why that one shows up only
as
one
thing
okay
I like this method so much more than the
tape
method people on line say that you
should use
tape but I think that that is
insanity I need to be precise about this
I feel like I can't just do whatever I
want I've got two tickets to I yeah I
made a power supply
yeah
Okay cool so
now we have this thing with pins in it
but I need to take them all out because
what we need to do is we need to sand
and wash this side of the board before
we do anything and then we're ready to
get cooking bro then we're ready to get
cooking we're ready to cook it up
Breaking Bad
style all
right so I'm going to put these needles
back in the thing so I don't poke
myself
well I'm going to use them in a second I
don't [__] about poking
myself yo remind me to put new gloves on
when I start cooking it up because
otherwise we're going to have a
problem
okay
um okay so what we need to do is we need
to get our
sandpaper
I'm not I'm not I'm just [__] with
you okay we're sanding it up actually
hold on let me do
this
all
right so now we got to wash
it and here here's actually a good tip
is so ISO so acetone will melt the ink
but alcohol
won't so I can use alcohol to clean
things safely without being scared that
it's going to destroy the
ink P up the
alcohol
I'm excited I think that this is going
to go
well okay now it's
clean now we can put back in our
pins maybe we let it dry with the heat I
have this super bright light that's
hot it'll dry things like this alcohol
super
quickly okay now we need to make sure
that put this face
down in the red
spot and then what we want to do is we
actually want to put the
pins let's see okay I got we going to
put it through downward
um no wait am I an idiot you want to put
it through from the
bottom so that it'll lay somewhat
flat okay we're going to see how this
goes this is
the um
well the cool part's coming up where I
pour the chemical in that etches the
copper away but there's not that much
stuff left
honestly it's not like that much
stuff I mean for the whole modular synth
there's like a lot left to do but
that's cuz the thing is this is only one
module this is the oscillator but you
need filters amplifiers you need you
need like delay and Reverb you can go on
forever and ever
so oh
[__] okay so wait hold
on
hey all right so now what we're going to
do
is we're going to iron
this yeah but I want to
I'm but I want to be sort of done with
it
honestly just because I want to build
some other
stuff but no I I like this project and I
really want to see it
okay I've got two tickets to I want to
build a PCR
machine polymerase Chain
Reaction okay so let
me
get
uh it's not that complicated a PCR
machine all it does if you get rid of
all the reagents and stuff all it is is
something that heats up cools down heats
up cools down and it just does that
relatively quickly like
and so the way that you do it is you use
the thing called a pelta
module which basically you can make it's
like two pieces of metal sandwiched
together and they're different types and
it does something called a
thermoelectric effect or whatever and if
you put a voltage across it it gets hot
on one side and cold on the other and so
usually they use it for like
Refrigeration but it turns out you can
use the hot side for like heating up a
piece of aluminum that will be used to
put your little sample
in still not that
hot but yeah the the stuff that's left
for tonight is
I'm going to want to solder this thing
but I don't know how much steam I got
left it's only 1 hour 30 into this so
like we're pretty early and it's only 7
at
night
okay
all right here goes
nothing
okay so now I'm peeling the needles out
of this thing because supposedly it's
been locked in place by the heat of the
thing
oh man I'm excited I really hope this
works I should have made two
but oh
well thanks
dude I'm glad you're excited man I am
too
okay that's probably good
enough okay so we're going to let that
cool down for a little little bit and
while we do that we can start to clean
up all of this crap that I have
everywhere
um so this was a this one was a total
failure but I don't give a [__]
okay
okay good
[__] okay I'm going to switch my gloves
soon um let me put these copper boards
back we definitely don't want to have
the copper next to the fair chloride cuz
then we lose all of our copper
[Applause]
boards
okay
scissors
all right so now I'll show you the
goodies unboxing video from hell right
so we got our dry station so let me set
it to overhead because we're not going
to be able to change it once we're so we
got our dry station let me this up
here
okay we got
our container for etching
we got our water
bath so you put this over here this over
here I'm glad it's not windy it's really
annoying when this is windy then we got
the piece the
resistance baric
chloride so this stuff reacts with
copper okay some throw away my
gloves I'm going to go take a piss
because this might take this usually
takes like 15 to 20 minutes to etch it
all away but since there's double the
copper in it I don't know I might have
to flip it over um yeah we'll see about
that that'll be newb why do I need the
water bath uh you need to rinse off all
the crap uh once it's all eaten away so
that it's you know just to clean it I
don't need to bathe it really it's just
um
I guess part of the problem is that some
of the feric chloride gets in here and
you can't just pour that into bushes
because it'll kill plants and [__] so
what you do is I'm just storing this so
that I can properly dispose of it later
um okay so I'm going to take a piss and
we're going to do this
[__]
okay I'm also it's getting cold I'm put
on a jacket and the jacket will help it
so that if any splashes on me won't be
as
bad have a drink of water
too this isn't as bad as I'm making it
seam like this really only takes like 15
minutes
okay let's get
it all right so the first
step the first step let's
check please be a
good not too
shabby not the worst thing in the world
nothing that I think we can't
fix um we want to switch over to the
scope I don't want to put this on the
metal so I have to hold it so we're not
going to get as close of a zoom in as
maybe we
want but
um
you know
mostly not bad you can see this we're
going to have to repair that with just
some solder
Bridge which this I think is okay
because whatever that
is I don't even know what what is
that I guess that's a resistor or
something I don't know what that is but
as long as it makes contact
and oh the other thing that's
interesting about this is that we're
going to have to solder it on both sides
that's something that I really haven't
thought
about you can see this
Trace is that is that
broken you might need to add some extra
solder to make sure that that's not
broken
um anyways I the the real question will
be how lined up is this really
uh cuz this is the first real board that
I've ever made like the other boards are
just total cheap
[__] all right so back to overhead I'm
put on some
gloves and we're going to e
cooking
for
okay now next is
goggles cuz I don't want to do anything
with my eyes I don't want to [__] up my
eyes
bro and then we got the respirator
because I don't want to breathe in
Copper in the
air
for
here we
go now we just shake it for about 15
minutes maybe we'll do it for
10 then I'm going to flip it over and
we're going to see what's up with
that
for
yeah it's so
boring here I'll take it out you can
start to
see well you can't see much yet you
can't see much yet
I want to build something that'll do
this for me it should be pretty
easy
yeah
for
no way bro that [__] I'm not let
dude I don't want this to get everywhere
I mean like yeah maybe but that seems
sus
a
swing it could work it could work I I
was I was too quick to
judge yeah
yeah
okay so you can see maybe the edges are
starting to get a little bit
done
Okay
Google Okay
Google [__] I hate my phone okay Google
[__] this
B I want to play some music bro
for
how long has it been it's
been 7
minutes
[Music]
yes I can I absolutely can watch the
bull for 10
minutes I've done it like four times
already
for
check it out starting to get
there
e
um yeah
so okay so you have ink you can make
them out of Sharpies right so you take a
copper board you take a sharpie you
clean the board you Sharpie on the board
then you put it in this stuff and
anything yeah just the mask
yeah just the mask
the boards themselves are made of copper
and
fiberglass
uh I'll show you I'll show you once I'm
done you use a program a program for
doing specifically
that the program is called
uh yeah I'll show I'll show
you okay we're almost done with the
first
side
for
F
clo there's still some copper on the
front side
though
yeah it's Kad
yeah
yeah that's the
one there's lots of them but that's my
favorite cuz it's free and open
source dude I never asked you what
language do you cod
in
damn
for
yeah
okay we are almost done bro we are
almost
done
it's just these tiny little bits on here
it's just this part and this part it's
so
annoying
[Music]
okay I'm going to get some more water
for the water
bath
yeah that's good enough that's good
enough
okay all
right
all right it looks good to
me I'm just going to tap some of the
excess off
here
look at
that oh my God it looks so
cool it looks so
cool
okay so now we're going to dry
it
okay got a
funnel
okay so
now we take
acetone
for
look at that isn't that just
magic it's
copper it's copper
bro
for
all right I'm back from
the town of whatever all right so now
I'm going to put this up on the scope I
want to be careful with this thing cuz
this thing took really a long time to
make but so here if we look at it
now you can see it's not
perfect I have to make like four of
these dude because okay well one of them
I just wanted to
see is I want to make the exact same
want a copy of this and I just want to
see if I can do
it uh with the magazine paper it doesn't
seem like I'll be able to do it with the
magazine paper hold on I need to clean
up a little
bit okay but yeah um but for all of the
boards in the
system oh also okay wait what is that
for I don't know what that's
for but it turns out that this
one
um this one that I kind of messed
up it's actually really
important
the that so this trade
is actually really important I said it
wasn't important earlier but it's
actually the power for one of the chips
so I need to make sure that it's all
clean and good so now look at that I
mean just a tiny
little thing and we're toast luckily it
doesn't look like we're
toast but I would hate to solder all
this
together and then find out that it
didn't
work um but one thing that's really
really awesome is that if I take a
bright light and I shine and I look at
it through the bright light this
probably won't come
through I don't know why the cable for
this is so
short
something
okay
so that that's not going to
work maybe if I okay how how hold
on let me think about this I think I
have a flashlight let me try to do
this it's a little
bright what I'm trying to
show is the alignment because the thing
is it's double-sided and the biggest
challenge with going from a single-sided
to double-sided is making sure that the
trace are aligned on both sides and I
think I actually did a pretty good job
of that okay so new
gloves okay so the next
step is to drill
holes in all of this so we're going to
drill holes in all the places that we
need to drill the
holes
all right I should stop worrying
let me take a picture of just a
document
okay okay so now we need to drill a
bunch of holes and this is where
God this is nerve-wracking
because all right [__] it I mean there's
only one way to do this it's to [__]
try
let's see what time is
it
7:36
it's only
7:36 damn it's early bro I got two hours
to finish this
thing
okay all right so now it's just a bunch
of
drilling
for
[Applause]
e
[Music]
[Applause]
e
of
for
[Music]
e
for
sorry
man sorry bro that that part just takes
so long yeah dude I stream often follow
me dude I hope you're still here but
yeah if you're not oh yeah yeah that was
a long time
ago okay well
uh
um okay so we're done dremeling so I'm
going to clean that
up it's almost morning dude these people
that watch me bro they stay up for the
show you know what I mean like stay up
for the
show
okay oh you're still here bro yeah sorry
man um so hold on let me see if the
flashlight trick will work can you it
just it's it's too bright let me see if
I can like hold
on you can kind of see flashes those
flashes are it shining through the
hole oh
nice who's playing right now not that I
really follow basketball
um so I think it came out okay uh I
don't think it came out perfect uh there
was some Drift from back to front and
what i realiz is that it's more
important to drill the front first but I
drilled the back
first I mean all the holes are the same
but I flipped it
over okay I need to take a
piss
um let me get on the microscope
actually okay so you can see here the
holes where's this is a good
example see these holes so on the back
side if you flip it over these two holes
are cut pretty much perfectly wait hold
on where am I in the center when you
flip them over they're
not I just realized I missed two [__]
that's not good okay I got to do two
more and then I'll be actually done with
the Dremel the Dremel is so
boring this is why you need a I need a
nice computer vision milling
machine
for
okay I'll be back in a
second
part of the problem too is
that part of the problem too is that I'm
cutting at an angle I think
think get all the [__] fiberglass out
of my
jacket okay but I think
I let me do a test make sure that I
really have every
hole it's hard to
tell yeah it's very hard to tell unless
I shine a light through through
it okay
now I need to get I don't know where I
put those I's I had some ic's on the
table over there earlier I don't know
where I put
them look good they are okay
so what we want to
do these ices are dead but we want to
see do they
fit of course
not oh this is going to be a pain in the
freaking head bro
pain in the neck
dude dip 14 my
ass okay so here's what I'm trying to
do I put these in the
holes
I think next time I need to go in and do
a global thing where I
change all the holes to be
larger cuz the drift is just horrible I
think all seven are in on that side so
as long as I just move
these individually which is [__]
[Music]
annoying
the drift is particularly bad because
some go in some
way you got to be really skilled at the
[__] I think that the ic's will
obviously be the hardest because there's
14 pins that you need to line up
resistors and capacitors are probably
pretty easy to get by with doing pretty
little oh [__] it's taking off some of
the
copper
need better tool for
this
try to use a
pen push
it into the right
spot
for
oh
[__] God
damn
oh
nice nice okay here I'm ready to show
something
finally you probably can't
tell but the legs are through all of
them if only
barely yeah I probably need to clean up
some of these holes cuz they're
just really
bad okay let's try to do the last the
second I
see
very bent bent the [__] out of these
legs it probably depends on what side I
did it
on see this is why I need to cut on the
front side because that's where the
components actually go on I might need
to redo this whole
thing but I think that this might be the
front side so in which case I'm actually
kind of
lucky
for
nice okay so we have the second legs on
so I'm going to try to take off this I
see okay so
um see
which oh wait actually what you can St
on the scope I just want to see which
side is front and which side is back
and I thought that was supposed to be
mirrored
most definitely is not oh it it is
mirrored when I printed it but that's
yeah it's so funny working with this
stuff she doesn't give a damn about me
cuz I'm just a
teenage bag
baby
[Music]
okay so what we're going to do
since
wait
okay
oh yeah
work where's my
pen I think this might go better with
the things with really long
legs should I go get one of
those
for
this going to drive me [__]
crazy all right let me try to get one of
those IC
holders uh let me get that bucket
for
okay wait so this is
a this is 16
pin
16 I swear I saw a bunch
of 14 pin
guys okay that's a 14 pin guy but these
legs look th Fe
Fe
these might be
good
this looks
perfect
might take some
koling wow that's really
painful
once I get this in I'm just going to
solder it I think right
away cuz I feel like getting the I
season is half the B I hope I'm not just
destroying my traces maybe I should put
this on a piece of
paper
oh I have the needles maybe the needles
will
help
deep
15 deep
for
Sally did you pick up the
tomatoes
[__] get in that
[__]
okay I think one side is actually
in I take it out I don't want to take it
out I don't want to risk it this is not
something that I need to concern myself
with
okay now does this guy go
in I might just have to order my chips
cuz this is one of the most ridiculous
things
[Music]
get in there
bro
oh my God it's so
close
God it's so close I can [__] taste
it let me see if I
can can I
tell the third from last doesn't look
very
good oh my God I think I did
it
that's not coming out no matter what
bro that was seriously
painful now let's do it again hopefully
we can find one
like
that right I think I have one
inside did I just put this one in there
oh nice
okay so
let work our way out of
there
okay we're going to start from that side
I
guess okay we got
three of them in there on that
side
okay
for
wait where even is that
one it
is oh my God I think I might have gotten
it I think I got
it did I do it
did I do
it I did it suck on that dony
brains anyways it's in there it's hard
to tell but it's in
there that's
fine wait hold on that's fine
as long as they don't
[Music]
break now part of the problem is we
actually do want to okay wait hold on
please tell me they're not broken if
they're broken I'm going to be so
sad okay they're not
broken but I want to pull this out of
there slightly
so that cuz the thing is I need to
solder on
[Music]
it on both sides oh what are these
things
for these things are for holding so okay
yeah actually now's a good time to for
me to show you cuz I got them in what
the hell is going on okay so you use
this program and actually I streamed
earlier today it's on my you all the
vods are on my YouTube if you want to
see but so this is Kad you can open up
what's called the schematic and the
schematic defines all the logic of the
board so these are all components that
are placed and their spatial orientation
and position just does not matter but
then you go and you start editing a PCB
they start laying it
out and you actually place the
components onto the board and so these
are two chips this one is these are two
chips that I use in driving the board
and so basically these are little
holders these things are called socket
holders or whatever oh wait I'm not on
the scope anymore and these holders
allow me to um place the actual
chip in the holder without me having to
burn the chip because um it's not that
they're expensive but sometimes you want
to reclaim parts from boards and so this
allows you to take them
out so you solder to
these
okay I think let's see how far are we
into this it's been 3
hours
[Music]
huh okay let me start some cleanup and
then I am going
to try to I think I'm going to try to
solder and just see what soldering onto
these is
like but God this process is so
painful especially because we're going
to have to solder into both
sides the shapes of the
lines they don't really matter um at
this level when you get to really high
levels when people are designing like
boards for professional [__] like the
power plane if it draws more current
will be like way thicker and stuff like
that
so in some sense it matters and actually
an interesting thing in very high
frequency designs oh you can't see my
thing but whatever in very high
frequency designs they'll actually have
to do what's called Trace length match
in and so they'll take um let me see if
I can pull up a picture of it cuz it's a
good it's a good
thing
um Trace length
matching yeah this is a great picture so
basically they add all these squiggly
lines so that the electrons you when you
send a signal over here and send a
signal over here the computer gets them
at the same time because if they're
delayed then the whole thing is [__]
up so you have to
do this Trace length matching
thing look at that that's horrible just
so and I think it was just cuz I was
pressing
down not vertically this is why you need
a drill press to really do this
stuff drill presses aren't that
expensive but I don't have space for it
really
maybe I'll have it raised a little bit
see please don't break please don't
break please don't
break because of this
one this guy AIT Mo
this okay that should be
good
okay I think I'm going
to try to solder onto these babies all
right let me clean up and I'm going to
solder
it
for
it's
okay okay now I just need to put
away
um the bag of death which is the etching
bag is this my dry one okay the dry one
also goes in
there
okay okay the etching bag is
good
for
[Music]
okay we
we Let's see we don't need this thing
with the needles anymore I
guess okay I'm just going to get the
soldering a we're going to bang this out
okay what can I get what can I
move uh yeah I'm getting
hungry I don't
know
yeah I need to finish the link
to you fine whatever is
better
okay
um all right get back to
hold I guess I got to put this here oh I
bring this
in bring the alcohol and the acetone
in and I'll bring the dude so much of
projects just cleaning
up
yeah it's such a process okay I need
to
dude this this lamp that I have gets so
hot smells like it's
burning so bright though I love it you
need
light you need a
light okay oh I need to get the solder
itself or do we want to do the underside
first or do we want to do the
I guess this is
fine okay that's dirty let's plug in the
[Music]
iron
when did I start
making making
what when I start making
what oh here's the last pin there we go
put this
back oh the whole synth honestly like
two months
ago uh but I the thing is I live in
Boston
but um in Boston I don't really have any
tools so I was kind of just like buying
components and it's taking forever
but bit and the you know I have a lot of
components now so now it's a lot easier
okay hold
on
for
okay I got the
solder all right is the iron on no okay
heating up heating up heating up okay
this is trash this is
trash
um we need a
fan
plug in the
fan all
right okay now we have something to
exhaust the
smoke we have our third hand our very
nice third
hand all right let's see how how this
goes
ooh that was
easy oh baby oh baby this is feeling
real
nice
for
[Music]
got me a little bit I should use a
sponge this thing is very
hot okay well that
sucks
the hell's going on
there
okay that's
fine all right
cool
for
what pin
14 go to that wow that's how long the
resistors
are this G is too long I think last time
I must have picked seven pitch not 10
pitch that seems really
long
this seems
problematic I see why they make these
tall now I don't know what I'm going to
do hopefully the solder just went
in but I kind of doubt that it
did oh
boy okay well let's try to do it with
the [__] I should have raised it
up I might need to use a heat gun to get
this thing off of here let me try to do
it here and see if we
can make this
work oh melting plastic
great these need to be longer but you
can't make them longer
I don't know how I'm going to do
this maybe I'll just melt the plastic I
don't give a
[__] I should use the dremo and cut it
then
I might have just [__] this whole
board that's the crazy thing is
that it's so easy to [__] the whole
board
up I don't know if it's really all
messed
up but I've never really used the heat
gun to desolder this
thing let me try to get the corner just
do one
corner
I don't think that one has any pad on it
though let's try this one that has a pad
on
it yeah cuz there's no way that that's
connected
[__] okay so we're going to have to so
I'm probably going to wrap it up soon
go eat some
dinner see is that even going in there
come on touch
the touch the
copper
jackass desoldering this is going to be
a [__] if we have it on both
sides
and
m
I actually think I can get this one by
being a sneaky a sneaky
beat
I'm a sneaky
be and then I don't know how I'm going
to do the Via I have a single via on the
entire
board and we're going to have to figure
that
out a sneaky
be
who's a sneaky be I'm a sneaky
beat um we need to flip this thing
around you probably can it was probably
not even in the frame
oh yeah
dude see you man I don't know when that
was it was it was dope hanging with you
if you're still here it was really
dope I had a ton of
fun cool you should go bro it's if it's
morning dude I don't want to be the
reason you stayed
up uh cuz I'll be back you know like
this is not the last time I'm going to
be doing
this
yeah I don't know how how did you end up
here cuz I'm on a a
weird uh
category
okay so I
think see if I can get this in frame
this camera is so bad I'm saving up for
a new
camera for
overhead but so anyways the problem is
there's copper on both sides but there's
not copper in the holes and so ideally
you can I can plate the inside of the
Vias cuz all of these things need to be
Junctions and it was just great I guess
I guess it's a good opportunity that
I'll learn how to use a heat gun to try
to desolder this thing cuz I need to
remove all of these solder joints and
then I need to lift it out of
there it's going to be uh it's going to
be a
lot all right but we're just going to do
this last solder and say that we call it
it
that
uh so the rest of the components I don't
know that'll probably take another two
or three
hours
um and then once the components are
in I'll need to
uh I I'll need to see if it works so
I'll test it on an
oscilloscope and in the likely event
that it doesn't work we're going to have
to de do
debugging and see what the problem
is
um yeah it depends on what goes wrong
I've debugged this if the
circuit yeah no debugging is a
pain all
right none of those tracers even go
anywhere
so that's fine
though actually how is that even
grounded cuz the ground
pin let's see how is that
grounded the Schmid trigger
is
grounded oh oh yeah it's this pin that
doesn't do
anything and that pin that's grounded
through the bottom okay
cool all right let's see how long is
this
stream 3:30 I feel like that's a good
amount of time for a
stream like the 6 hour ones get no
views
um but okay so let me let me wrap it up
with the
overhead or actually I'll do the scope
cuz we have the scope all right so what
did we do today we
built a two layer board dude what's your
name by the way
like my name is Anand a n a n
d okay so we built a our first two layer
board oh look at that that is a pain in
the ass
okay dud you should join my Discord I'd
love to uh you know be
friends all right so we made this we
basically what we did is we yeah all
right I don't need to explain this I'm
going I'm out of here Dominic dude it's
[__] it was a pleasure man I'm taking
off I I'm pretty beat this has been like
7 hours today it's a good day 7 hours
just to make this little [__] piece
of
[__] all right peace
bro